---
layout: project
title: "Project Ballyhoo: Analyzing Publicity Text and Promotional Image Reuse across 20th Century Digitized Periodical Collections"
award_number: "HAA-303912-25"
---


# Project Ballyhoo: Analyzing Publicity Text and Promotional Image Reuse across 20th Century Digitized Periodical Collections

**Award Number:** HAA-303912-25  
**Award Period:** 2/1/2025 - 1/31/2027  
**Project Director:** Eric  Hoyt  
**Organization:** University of Wisconsin, Madison  
**Location:** Madison, WI  
**Year Awarded:** 2024  
**Primary Humanities Discipline:** Film History and Criticism  
**Grant Program Name:** Digital Humanities Advancement Grants  
**Approved Outright Funds:** $148,428  
**Awarded Outright Funds:** $148,428  

---

## Description

<p>Large-scale computational analysis of U.S. periodicals from the early twentieth century to better understand the broad cultural impacts of mass communication and publicity. </p>
<p>Beginning in the early-20th century, publicists and press releases reshaped what Americans read in newspapers and magazines. How widely did publicity text and promotional images circulate? What did they mean for how readers received information and understood culture? Project Ballyhoo seeks to answer these questions, and, in the process, enhance computational methods for analyzing text and image reuse. The Wisconsin Center for Film and Theater Research respectfully requests Level II funding for this project that advances two NEH program priorities: the refinement of innovative methods and enhancement of digital infrastructure. Utilizing the Media History Digital Library (MHDL) collection and UW-Madison’s Center for High Throughput Computing, Project Ballyhoo will benefit communities in Film, Media, Journalism, Mass Communication, History, and Digital Humanities. Deliverables will include journal articles, conference workshops, open source code, and a new section of the MHDL website.</p>
