---
layout: project
title: "Expanding Access to the Digital Humanities in St. Louis"
award_number: "HAA-284844-22"
---


# Expanding Access to the Digital Humanities in St. Louis

**Award Number:** HAA-284844-22  
**Award Period:** 1/1/2022 - 6/30/2023  
**Project Director:** Geremy  Carnes  
**Organization:** Lindenwood Education System  
**Location:** Saint Charles, MO  
**Year Awarded:** 2021  
**Primary Humanities Discipline:** Interdisciplinary Studies, General  
**Grant Program Name:** Digital Humanities Advancement Grants  
**Approved Outright Funds:** $49,938  
**Awarded Outright Funds:** $43,152  

---

## Description

<p>Developing a workshop and building a network for supporting and disseminating methods in digital humanities pedagogy for secondary and post-secondary institutions in the St. Louis, Missouri region.</p>
<p>“Expanding Access to the Digital Humanities in St. Louis” will build a digital humanities network for the greater St. Louis metropolitan area, linking faculty, students, and community members across the region’s educational and cultural institutions in a community of pedagogy and practice. This network will bridge the K-12-college divide and emphasize active advancement of digital humanities pedagogy and access for underserved populations. Rather than focusing on faculty research, this network will center student learning, particularly at the often neglected secondary and undergraduate levels. At a workshop held in September 2022, network members will establish processes that will allow secondary and post-secondary students throughout the region to participate remotely in digital humanities projects headquartered at participating institutions. They will also identify other collaborative goals for the network to pursue toward improving digital humanities pedagogy in St. Louis.</p>
