---
layout: project
title: "Democratizing digital lexicography: an infrastructure to facilitate the creation and dissemination of electronic dictionaries."
award_number: "HAA-290402-23"
---


# Democratizing digital lexicography: an infrastructure to facilitate the creation and dissemination of electronic dictionaries.

**Award Number:** HAA-290402-23  
**Award Period:** 1/1/2023 - 3/31/2024  
**Project Director:** Ligeia  Lugli  
**Organization:** Mangalam Centers  
**Location:** Berkeley, CA  
**Year Awarded:** 2022  
**Primary Humanities Discipline:** Linguistics  
**Grant Program Name:** Digital Humanities Advancement Grants  
**Approved Outright Funds:** $50,000  
**Awarded Outright Funds:** $50,000  

---

## Description

<p>A series of virtual planning meetings for the
development of a prototype platform for builders of digital lexical resources
and dictionaries for under resourced languages.</p>
<p>The project supports the creation and dissemination of digital dictionaries for low-resource languages. With many world languages at risk of extinction, online dictionaries & glossaries are increasingly crucial. Unfortunately, the languages most in need of such resources have the biggest challenges. The availability of digital infrastructure for a language is proportional to its representation - the more data that is available in digital format, the easier it becomes to automatically process it. Conversely, the less a language/culture is represented online, the higher the costs of retrieving and processing data about it. We propose to prototype a digital infrastructure that can help redress this inequality by drastically reducing the costs/technical expertise required to create, publish and maintain online dictionaries. A series of iterative development cycles will bring together user-testers, identify their needs, and prepare an alpha-prototype application to address these needs.</p>
