
# Machine Learning for Large-Scale Journalism Collections

**Award Number:** undefined  
**Award Period:** 4/1/2024 - 3/31/2026  
**Project Director:** David  Smith  
**Organization:** Northeastern University  
**Location:** Boston, MA  
**Year Awarded:** 2023  
**Primary Humanities Discipline:** Logic  
**Grant Program Name:** Digital Humanities Advancement Grants  
**Approved Outright Funds:** $149,934  
**Awarded Outright Funds:** $149,934  

---

## Description

<p>The development of a computationally-assisted cataloging workflow for curators and archives to provide enhanced access to large-scale newspaper photograph collections. The <em>Boston Globe</em>’s historic photo morgue, under the stewardship of the Northeastern University Libraries, will serve as the test case for this effort.</p>
<p>Northeastern University will develop machine learning tools and cataloging workflows to provide access to large newspaper photograph collections. Northeastern University is home to the <em>Boston Globe</em> photo morgue, a collection of over 1 million photographic prints from the newspaper’s past editions. When these images are stored, or in the jargon “sent to the morgue”, they often vanish into the history of journalism, consigned to defunct and forgotten newspaper clippings. In the past, digitization costs have been the key factor in limiting access to journalism archives. Today, the main barrier to access is the creation of metadata sufficient to support image search, retrieval, and analysis. The tools and processes developed by this grant will allow the Northeastern University Library to catalog these images at massive scale and provide open-source, reproducible software and workflows that can be leveraged by other institutions to help revive and curate similar collections.</p>
