---
layout: project
title: "Updating Seventeen Moments in Soviet History for Longevity, Accessibility and the Non-European Regions of the Former Soviet Union"
award_number: "HAA-300778-24"
---


# Updating Seventeen Moments in Soviet History for Longevity, Accessibility and the Non-European Regions of the Former Soviet Union

**Award Number:** HAA-300778-24  
**Award Period:** 10/1/2024 - 9/30/2025  
**Project Director:** James R. Von Geldern  
**Organization:** Macalester College  
**Location:** St. Paul, MN  
**Year Awarded:** 2024  
**Primary Humanities Discipline:** Russian History  
**Grant Program Name:** Digital Humanities Advancement Grants  
**Approved Outright Funds:** $149,660.65  
**Awarded Outright Funds:** $149,660  

---

## Description

<p>The updating of content and upgrading of the
technological infrastructure of Seventeen Moments in Soviet History multimedia
web resource to enhance usability and provide for long-term sustainability.</p>
<p>Seventeen Moments in Soviet History, originally developed in 2002 with NEH funding, is a multimedia archive offering a cross-section of Soviet life in seventeen different years. It provides users with a comprehensive experience of Soviet history through essays and primary materials, covering politics, society, culture, and economics. The site continues to attract over 700,000 unique visitors annually despite its out-of-date design. The Level II grant application seeks to update both functionalities and content. Functionality updates include ADA compliance, enhanced accessibility for diverse users and sustainability. Content updates aim to cover non-European regions of the former Soviet Union and deepen coverage of the last two decades of Soviet history. The overarching goal is to ensure longevity, accessibility, and sustained usage of the site for students and the general public.</p>
